.Dd May 23, 2019
.Dt PANCTL 1
.Os
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh NAME
.Nm panctl
.Nd Control the Matrix reverse proxy daemon pantalaimon.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a small utility to control and introspect the state of pantalaimon.
.Pp
.Ss Commands
The commands accepted by
.Nm
are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width 3n
.It Cm list-servers
List the configured homeservers and pan users on each homeserver.
.It Cm list-devices Ar pan-user Ar user-id
List the devices of a user that are known to the
.Ar pan-user .
.It Cm start-verification Ar pan-user Ar user-id
Start an interactive key verification between the given pan-user and user.
.It Cm accept-verification Ar pan-user Ar user-id
Accept an interactive key verification that the given user has started with our
given pan-user.
.It Cm cancel-verification Ar pan-user Ar user-id
Cancel an interactive key verification between the given pan-user and user.
.It Cm confirm-verification Ar pan-user Ar user-id
Confirm that the short authentication string of the interactive key verification
with the given pan-user and user is matching.
.It Cm verify-device Ar pan-user Ar user-id Ar device-id
Manually mark the given device as verified. The device will be marked as verified
only for the given pan-user.
.It Cm unverify-device Ar pan-user Ar user-id Ar device-id
Mark a previously verified device of the given user as unverified.
.It Cm blacklist-device Ar pan-user Ar user-id Ar device-id
Manually mark the given device of the given user as blacklisted.
.It Cm unblacklist-device Ar pan-user Ar user-id Ar device-id
Mark a previously blacklisted device of the given user as unblacklisted.
.It Cm send-anyways Ar pan-user Ar room-id
If a encrypted room contains unverified devices and a connected Matrix client
tries to send an message to such a room
.Nm pantalaimon
will send a notification that the room contains unverified users. Using this
command the user can choose to mark all unverified devices as ignored. Ignored
devices will receive encryption keys but will be left marked as unverified.
The message will be sent away after all devices are marked as ignored.
.It Cm cancel-sending Ar pan-user Ar room-id
In contrast to the
.Cm send-anyways
command this command cancels the sending of a message to an encrypted room with
unverified devices and gives the user the oportunity to verify or blacklist
devices as they see fit.
.It Cm import-keys Ar pan-user Ar file Ar passphrase
Import end-to-end encryption keys from the given file for the given pan-user.
.It Cm export-keys Ar pan-user Ar file Ar passphrase
Export end-to-end encryption keys to the given file for the given pan-user. The
provided passphrase is used to encrypt the file containing the keys.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pantalaimon 8
.Xr pantalaimon 5
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An Damir Jelić Aq Mt poljar@termina.org.uk .
